---
layout: post
date: 01/18/2013
permalink: /2013/01/change/
tweet: I know that change is hard. I also know that this fact is not news to anyone.
tags: post, Change, Habits
title: Change
---

<p>I know that change is hard. I also know that this fact is not news to anyone. How one deals with change, however, can drastically modify how they move forward after life-changing events. The first step in my change path was the realization that every day holds the possibility of a life-changing event and even small details can change the course of a day, a week, or a lifetime.</p>



<p>For me, I think it is time for a change. I got back from Italy, rested and ready for new challenges, hoping for a fresh look at everything around me: work, home, etc. Some changes in these areas are easy. Lexi and I want to rearrange our bedroom, we want to rethink our artwork, we want to take better care of the house and do so in more realistic timeframes than the old &#8220;we&#8217;ll get to that later&#8221; adage. Others of these changes are hard. I want to try to challenge myself in new ways, I want to spend more time doing things about which I am passionate, I want to be more purposeful in deciding how my time is spent, and I want to stop being so worried about the future. These changes are what I like to call habit-breakers.</p>



<p>I am a nail-biter, almost by trade. I have been biting my nails since middle school or just before and I could never quite figure out why. It is probably because I am a chronic worrier. I worry about everything and in addition to everything, I am a perfectionist, so I worry some more. In other words, I bit (note the past tense) my nails for two reasons: </p>



<ol><li>I am stressed or worried about something (anything).</li>

<li>Once I start ruining a nail, I have to get it to a point where I don&#8217;t mind how it looks.</li>

</ol><p>As one can see, this is a vicious cycle and often ends with nails that are too short for me to do anything but wait for a new canvas to fail to paint well.</p>



<p>What I realized shortly after my return from a relaxing vacation, traveling around beautiful parts of the world, was the fact that my habit-breakers are in fact part of a larger whole. For instance, if I decide to make a difficult change to affect all other changes, it should be in the not-worrying arena. I personally need to sit back and realize that I am very often (if not always) not in control and as a generally religious person, I have to believe that there are greater things at work that will take care of those things that are not within my control. Also, if I have trouble with worry now, how will I ever function as a parent or expect to survive in higher-stress working environments.</p>



<p>Currently, I have little to no stress at my job. Funny enough, it is often one of the things that I complain about most because I equate low-stress to boredom and a lack of responsibility. But what makes the difference is the feeling of lacking a purpose. When I don&#8217;t feel purposeful, I am not fulfilled and when I am not fulfilled, I become a less likable person, something about which I care a great deal. Something&#8217;s gotta give in this respect. I need to find new and innovative ways to challenge myself or else my brain will atrophy and since my place of employment doesn&#8217;t seem to have any intention of giving me more responsibility, the challenges and innovations must come in other ways. But I have already begun the change of not sitting stagnant waiting for others to provide for my own fulfillment.</p>



<p>As I work to change what I can, I intend to document the steps that I have taken or plan to take and the results to how I feel. If I quit my job, I&#8217;ll document that. If other life-changing events occur, I will discuss them. I continue to be amazed how writing things down here has helped with my information overload. And as I recently discussed with a good friend, thinking through things and talking things out helps in unforeseen ways.</p>



<p>In the end (the moral of the story, as it were) is this: what I can control, I should change and what I cannot control, I should pray that I, myself, change to better deal with the situation. I will say this, however, things will change and I will work to make sure that no matter what, I see those changes in a different light, one that is positive and looking forward, instead of regretting the past or fearing the future.</p>