---
layout: post
date: 05/02/2013
permalink: /2013/05/on-instapaper-and-the-obsolescence-of-the-original/
tags: post, Technology, Change, Instapaper, Apple, iPhone
title: On Instapaper and the Obsolescence of the Original iPhone
---

<p>It&#8217;s official: <a href="http://www.marco.org/2013/04/25/instapaper-next-generation" title="The Next Generation of Instapaper - Marco.org">Instapaper has been sold to Betaworks</a>. In addition, the original <a href="http://9to5mac.com/2013/04/29/original-iphone-will-soon-reach-obsolete-status-in-apple-retail-stores/" title="Original iPhone Story - 9to5Mac">iPhone has been deemed obsolete</a> by Apple in terms of hardware replacement and support. These two events are not related, really, but they both have a very real effect on me. Funny enough, Instapaper was the first app I bought once I received my hand-me-down iPhone 2G from a friend. I will continue to use the service, pay for it, and love it and I don&#8217;t feel anything but happy for <a href="http://www.marco.org/about" title="About - Marco.org">Marco Arment</a>, the creator of <a href="http://instapaper.com" title="Instapaper Homepage">Instapaper</a>. However, the announcement has made me take pause in the fact that the technology world is changing right in front of my eyes.</p>

<p>The tech world changes all the time, but I suppose I am not normally directly affected by it and it is not as much of a surprise as this was. Instapaper has been humanized to an extent for me; even though I don&#8217;t know Marco personally, I listened to podcasts and heard him speak, I reached out to him regarding writing for The Magazine and read his work, and I directly associated him with the application on which I have so come to depend.</p>

<p>I recently wrote about my move to quit using <a href="/2013/01/staying-in-control-of-staying-up-to-date" title="Staying In Control Of Staying Up-to-date - Engineered Eloquence">Google Reader and RSS</a> in general, which made the closure of that service seem all the more justified in my mind; I had &#8220;called it&#8221; and I was happy that I was weened off of RSS before its downfall. But the people who depended on that service had to have felt the way I do about Instapaper, had to have felt betrayed or questioned what they should do now. In that same vein, then, I suppose I worry that Instapaper will change in some way that makes it less valuable to me, or less friendly. </p>

<p>Of course, Instapaper remains in good hands; the aforementioned trust that I have in Marco means that I believe him when he says the service isn&#8217;t going anywhere, but I was caught off-guard and my fight or flight reaction now makes me feel ashamed. Similarly, the original iPhone was a piece of technology in which I focused my hopes and dreams for a time. The obsolescence of that piece of technology struck me as an event that shows the end of an era; I mourned the passing of a technological friend.</p>

<p>Over the years, I have said hello and goodbye to many technologies, especially given the fact that I am an early adopter and I will try any service at least once. The changes that are engendered by Instapaper&#8217;s sale and the original iPhone&#8217;s obsolescence have simply force me to reevaluate my connection to and dependency on these technologies, as well as their ability to affect me in ways that maybe they should not.</p>