---
layout: post
date: 01/30/2013
Permalink: /2013/01/the-macbook-air/
Tweet: The intersection of frugality, minimalism, and change; Man, that's a busy intersection!
tags: post, Technology, Frugality, Minimalism
title: The MacBook Air
---

<p>I know a lot about technology and I have tried a myriad of different devices and technologies over the years. Apparently, this communicates to people that I spend a lot of money on technology, but that is not the case. And although many people find it hard to believe, I am a frugal person, especially when it comes to technology. Being frugal in the tech world is a catch-22, as I hope to get the best I can at the lowest price I can. You could even call me cheap, although I never base my decisions solely on cost. I am also a minimalist, so it is natural that I don&#8217;t own a whole lot outside of what I need, even to the point of owning too little or deciding against a purchase that might spice up but otherwise clutter up my life. I bring up my frugality, on which I will have to post more at some point, to say this: I bought a MacBook Air this past weekend.</p>

<p>Although frugal, I am not an idiot, so when I saw that Best Buy was selling the MacBook Air in the 13&#8221; base configuration for the amount what I would normally pay for the 11&#8221; base configuration, I jumped. I would say that even if I didn&#8217;t need a new computer, I might have jumped; as it is, sales on Apple products only come around so often and they are normally on days I boycott (see my feelings on <a href="/2012/11/contemplating-thanksgiving" title='"Contemplating Thanksgiving" - Engineered Eloquence'>Thanksgiving/Black Friday</a>). In any case, I also jumped due to the fact that it has been seven years since my last computer upgrade. Keep in mind that I am a tech guy and am always surrounded by new and interesting pieces of technology through my work. But the personally-owned white MacBook has been on its last legs (and its third about-to-fail HDD) for awhile, so price was almost a non-issue in the decision-making process.</p>

<p>***Begin Sidebar***</p>

<p>I wanted to draw the reader&#8217;s attention to another case and point moment for the argument that <a href="/2013/01/change" title='"Change" - Engineered Eloquence'>I have changed</a>. There was a time when such a purchase would have sent me into a frenzy of excitement. I wouldn&#8217;t be able to wait to get home to open the box and setup a new toy. To be honest, I felt that excitement, but I was patient instead of hostile towards the packaging. In fact, I didn&#8217;t unbox the computer until the day after the purchase because life got in the way and we had company and there was no need. The computer was going to fit right into our lives when I was ready to allow it, just like any piece of furniture and herein lies the point. Buying a new computer for me is like buying a new appliance; there is excitement and there is the knowledge that your life will change with the addition but there is no rush to use it because it is what it is.</p>

<p>***End Sidebar***</p>

<p>My initial thoughts on the MacBook Air are actually rather funny, as I am moving from a white plastic MacBook but I have been using an iPad as my main computing device for so long; they culminated in, much to my wife&#8217;s chagrin, &#8220;Wow! This is heavy.&#8221; She immediately struck my arm with a slap and that was the end of that trifling complaint. As I have setup the machine, I am struck by the aforementioned appliance commentary; this computer is simply fitting in where the previous MacBook did and then some, allowing us to get more out of it from the start, but not altogether blowing us away. It&#8217;s faster, quieter, cleaner, and all-around better. The white MacBook is also constantly connected to a power source, so the fact that I can walk around the house with the computer, let alone keep it in standby for an insane amount of time, makes me jump for joy almost every time I open the lid. Again, however, these are only initial thoughts and as we break in the computer, I will write about it.</p>

<p>As I mentioned above, I am a minimalist, so the purchasing of a new computer sends me into a flurry of rethinking technology&#8217;s role in my life. As such, I will be carefully considering the other devices in the house, purging what is no longer of value, and possibly (hover to see definition of <a href="http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/frugality" title='"1. practicing economy; living without waste; thrifty" - Dictionary.com'>frugality</a>) replacing other items that are now decidedly outdated. The white MacBook may become a kiosk-style machine for rare occasions wherein it might be useful. Anyone need an old Airport Express, HP printer, George Foreman grill, White Apple MacBook, or anything else I (don&#8217;t want to) have in my house (hover to see the definition of <a href="http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/minimalism" title='"3. design or style in which the simplest and fewest elements are used to create the maximum effect" - Dictionary.com'>minimalism</a>)?</p>